(drumroll)
(rousing orchestral fanfare playing)
(fanfare ends)
(wind gusting)
(wind whistling)
(thunder rumbles in distance)
(thunder cracks)
(thunder crackling, rumbling)
(thunder fades)
(low rumbling, getting louder)
(crackling, rumbling)
(resolute sigh)
Zeus.
Poseidon.
It's been many years.
What do you see?
Thunderclouds.
But no lightning.
Stolen.
What?
You think I took it?
Omnipotence has
blinded you, brother.
We are forbidden from
stealing each other's powers.
But our children aren't.
You're accusing my son?
I haven't seen him
since he was a baby.
He doesn't know me or even know
who he is because of you.
If your son is the thief...
I will send him
to the depths of Tartarus.
If you touch him...
you will have the fight of your life.
You must return the bolt to me.
In 14 days, by midnight
on the summer solstice.
Or there will be war.
(water sloshing, bubbling)
BOY: And he's alive!
(laughs)
(clapping)
Percy Jackson is a beast!
You're a beast, man!
Give me some.
(chuckles)
How long was that?
-Seven minutes.
-Seven minutes?
-Mm-hmm.
-Oh.
That's crazy, man.
That's ridiculous.
-How do you do it?
-I just like being in water.
(sighs)
It's the one place I can think.
Mm-hmm.
(students chattering)
(school bell rings)
Wow, wish I could spend all day
underwater instead of this place.
Right? It's like high school
without the musical.
Every day is the same thing.
Look at this.
(sighs)
Good morning.
I'm Miss Dodds,
your substitute English teacher.
Would someone please explain
what Shakespeare was trying
to convey in this line from Othello?
Percy Jackson?
MISS DODDS: Well?
I'm sorry. I don't know.
Anybody else?
MAN: Yo, buddy,
you can't park there!
(laughs)
It was so funny.
That's great.
I didn't even know about it.
MAN 2:
It's not my problem, all right?
Look, there's nothing I can do.
You call them... you call them
and see what the problem is, all right?
MAN 3: Yeah, yeah...
PERCY:
Hey, Mom, I'm home.
MOM:
I'm up here, honey.
Hi.
Hey, Mom.
-How was school today?
-The usual.
Think this, uh,
dyslexia thing is getting worse.
Oh, why do you think that?
(sighs) I don't know.
Maybe it's the ADHD.
You know, I thought this school
was supposed to make things better.
Percy, I know how hard this is for you.
But someday it'll all make sense.
Really? When?
Hmm?
Tonight, tomorrow? When?
(door closes)
Woman!
-Hi, Gabe.
-(Gabe groans)
Where's my beer?
It's in the fridge.
So, what, it's supposed to magically float
from the icebox and into my hand?
(chuckles)
Hustle. (chuckles)
Oh, come on, man.
You have to do that right here?
It's disgusting. W-We're in a kitchen.
Yeah, real charmer you got there.
Really.
Show some respect.
All right?
That's my mom right there.
(grunts)
GABE: This is my house.
You show some respect.
Oh, come on.
Why do you stay with that pig?
He smells like a sewer.
He sleeps till noon every day,
and he can't even hold a job.
Why do you stay with him?
He's been good to us, Percy,
in ways you just... you don't understand.
You're right.
I don't understand. I don't get it.
(sighs heavily)
(people conversing indistinctly)
POSEIDON: Be prepared.
Everything is about to change, Percy.
Everything is about to change.
MR. BRUNNER:
There are 12 Olympian gods.
The Big Three are the brothers
Zeus, Poseidon, and Hades.
They attained power by
overthrowing their father, Cronus,
chopping him into little pieces.
The three gods
have been rivals ever since.
Always arguing.
Always threatening war.
On several occasions, they would
come down to Earth and, um...
how shall I put this?
Hook up?
(laughter)
They would hook up with mortals.
The children of these unions
were half god, half human.
Can anyone tell me
what they were called?
Percy.
(whispering) Percy.
Oh, I'm sorry. What?
What, Mr. Brunner?
What is the proper name of
the offspring of a human and a god?
Demigod.
Exactly.
And many became great heroes,
like Hercules and Achilles.
Can you name... another?
I'll give you a hint.
You have something in common.
Percy.
Perseus?
Correct.
Now, over here, we have a depiction
of Hercules defeating the Nemean lion.
Hercules killed the beast
with his bare hands
and took the skin as a trophy.
Percy.
Yes, Miss Dodds?
We need to talk.
Okay.
BRUNNER: The next 11 labors
would become increasingly difficult.
It would take Hercules three months...
So, did I do something wrong?
Miss Dodds?
Hello?
MISS DODDS (angrily):
Where is it?
Whoa, whoa. Hey, hey.
How... did you get up there?
-(growls)
-Whoa! Whoa!
(shrieking)
(gasping, screams)
-(gasps)
-You stole the lightning bolt.
I don't know
what you're talking about!
Give it to me.
Whoa! Whoa!
Now.
Or I will bite your heart out.
Percy!
(gasping)
Release him!
You.
Release him, or I swear
I'll tear you to pieces.
(shrieking)
Whoa!
(groaning)
(shrieking)
(gasping)
Oh... oh...!
Whoa, I'm going crazy!
Oh... I should be on medication.
-Percy, calm down, okay?
-I should be on medication.
-Everything's going to be okay.
-Oh, God, wait.
Did that really just happen?
She just turned into that thing?
A Fury... concealed in our school.
I should've known.
Wait, a Fury? What's a Fury?
And why did you say
you could tear her to pieces?
What did she want from you?
She... said something...
about me...
stealing a lightning bolt.
They found him.
He's in danger.
-Who found me?
-Shh.
-He's no longer secure here.
-Okay, where should we move him?
We have no choice-- to the camp.
Huh? What camp?
Look, I'm standing right here.
If they think he's the thief,
there's nowhere safe
on Heaven and Earth for him now.
Percy, take this to defend yourself.
It's a powerful weapon.
Guard it well.
Only use it in times of severe distress.
This is a pen. This is a pen!
Take him to his mother.
And don't let him out of your sight.
Okay. Percy, come on.
Come on, man. Come on!
-Are you guys crazy?
-Let's go!
This is a pen, man.
-Can't do anything with this.
-Come on!
Look, man, what's going on?
Shh! Look, don't
trust anyone, okay?
Don't look at anybody.
Just keep walking!
Why did Mr. Brunner
ask you to watch me?
Because I'm your protector.
Wait, wait, wait. Hold up.
My protector? Are you kidding?
What? You think because I'm like this,
I'm not capable of keeping you safe?
Maybe you're not seeing
what I'm seeing. You have crutches.
Look, I would give my life
to secure your well-being.
What are you talking about?
What's going on?
We gotta warn your mom.
Come on, Perce.
Come on!
Sally!
-PERCY: Mom!
-More beer!
Hey, Mom, Mom, Mom, Mom,
look, we got to talk, okay?
Hey! Can't you see she's
servicing me and my friends?
Hey, hey! Don't talk about my mom
like that, you bald-headed freak.
-No, Gabe! Gabe!
-Calm down!
(grunting and groaning)
-Oh, God.
-MAN: Whoa!
Hey, nice one.
Like I said, I'm your protector.
Yeah.
Sally, Percy has to leave now.
Like, right now.
PERCY:
Look, what is happening?
Okay, I swear I didn't steal anything.
Honey, I believe you. I believe you.
Where are you taking me?
What is this camp?
It's a camp for really special people.
Like you.
"Special people"?
What, am I crazy or something?
SALLY: No, honey, no.
Percy, this is about your father.
SALLY:
...out of school, and I was working
at the Jersey Shore when we first met.
Your father was unlike
any guy I'd ever seen.
He was just dazzling.
Well, they're always dazzling.
We were really in love, Percy.
And then you came along,
and then it was just perfect.
But he had to leave.
So, he did abandon us.
No, honey, he was forced to.
He loved you.
Leaving you-- it was probably
the most difficult thing he ever did.
(mooing)
Why did he have to go?
Because he's...
-Sally, watch out!
-PERCY: Whoa!
(tires screech)
(screaming)
(groaning)
-Percy.
-Mom, you all right?
-Yeah. Yeah.
-Grover, you all right?
(groaning)
Is it me, or is it raining cows?
(Sally panting)
(rumbling)
What is that?
SALLY: Get out!
Hurry! Come on!
Why are you taking your pants off?
-What are you doing?
-My job.
Whoa! Whoa!
You're half donkey?
I'm half goat.
(grunting)
Guys, watch all this glass.
Come on! Get out the car!
That thing's getting closer!
-You don't even need these.
-Look, man, those are just for show.
-Follow me!
-Whoa!
(grunting)
This way, guys. This way!
Come on! Come on!
Come on! Run!
Run!
(growling)
(panting)
(roaring)
(gasps)
(screaming)
Come on! Come on!
(panting)
We're here! Come on!
(all panting)
-(whooshing)
-(grunting)
Mom, what are you doing?
This is as far as I can go.
-No. Come on!
-I can't go through.
I'm not like you.
Look, I'm not leaving without you.
You have to. You're meant to.
(growling)
(screaming)
(roaring)
(groaning)
Put my mother down!
Percy, go.
You're safe inside the gate.
-What can I do?
-Listen, use the pen!
-What?
-Use Brunner's pen and click it.
Whoa!
(screaming)
(whooshing)
(growling)
(grunting)
(groaning)
(panting)
-(Minotaur roars)
-(Percy gasps)
Perce, are you okay?
(growling, huffing)
(panting)
(growling)
(roaring)
Percy, behind you!
(grunting)
(roaring)
(grunts, sighs)
(howling)
(sighing)
-Perce, you okay?
-I'm not feeling...
Percy!
(groans, gasps)
GROVER:
Perce. I'm sure glad you're alive.
Ow!
Oh.
PERCY: Where am I?
What is this place?
The infirmary.
You've been unconscious
for three days.
Three days?
So, uh, Perce, what do you remember?
(scoffs)
Some... crazy dream.
I don't know. There was... a monster.
My mom was there.
Well, you were there, too,
but you were some weird hybrid...
man-goat thing. Whoa!
Yeah.
The politically correct term is satyr.
No.
No, no, no, no!
All of it was real?
My mom's gone?
I'm sorry, Percy.
I try, man. I really do.
But, frankly,
I'm just a junior protector.
I don't have my horns yet.
It was my fault.
It was my job to protect you.
Both of you.
(heavy sigh)
-(men grunting)
-MAN: Good. Hold your position.
Nice. Up.
So, this is Camp Half Blood.
"Half," meaning what?
I think you know.
"Half" meaning
half mortal, half god.
-MAN: Fire!
-Whoa! Guys, watch the arrows!
Newcomer. Hello.
Gosh!
Look, man, remember all the myths
about Greek gods and goddesses?
Well, they're not myths.
Look, remember what
Mr. Brunner said?
Sometimes they come down to Earth
and they fall in love with mortals,
and then they have... kids?
No way.
Yes way.
Yep, you're a demigod!
Two points for Percy Jackson!
(laughs)
Look, don't worry,
but you're not alone.
There's hundreds in the world.
Some lead normal lives,
and some-- I'm not allowed
to divulge the names--
are very famous.
I'm talking about, like,
White House famous.
See, man, this place right here,
this is the place where you learn
to harness your powers.
You're trained to become
leaders, warriors, and heroes.
PERCY: I think you have
the wrong guy, all right?
I'm not a hero. I'm a loser.
I have dyslexia, ADHD.
GROVER:
And those are your greatest gifts.
When you try to read, the words
float off the page, right?
That's because your brain is hardwired
for ancient Greek, not English.
Like... at the museum, I can read.
Yeah.
And your ADHD...
You're impulsive, Percy.
You can't be still.
Those are your natural
battle reflexes, man.
They kept you alive in your fight.
Look, no pitiful loser
can defeat a Minotaur.
Your blood is special.
It's the blood of a god.
This is a lot to process.
Yeah, a lot, a lot.
(students grunting)
This is where you do most
of your battle training.
(students grunting)
What's her name?
(laughs)
She will squash you like a bug.
Her name.
Annabeth, daughter
of Athena, the goddess of wisdom.
Hey, no staring.
Keep it moving.
Keep it moving. Come on.
PERCY:
Uh-huh.
There's someone I want you to see.
Check this out.
-Oh, wow.
-(chuckles)
What are those things?
They're centaurs.
(laughs)
PERCY:
Wait a minute.
Is that Mr. Brunner?
Come on.
Whoa, w-w-whoa.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
(chuckles)
Mr. Brunner?
In my world,
I'm known as Chiron.
Are you recovered?
Am I recovered?
You, you're not in a wheelchair.
You have...
A real horse's ass.
I apologize for hiding my true form,
but I needed to keep an eye on you.
I hope you'll forgive me.
Come.
(horse neighs)
(women chatting and laughing)
-Hey, Grover!
-Grover!
(overlapping chatter)
Ooh, the daughters of Aphrodite.
Okay, all right, guys.
You guys got a lot of catching up to do.
Their mother is the goddess of love,
so you know where that leads.
Hey, baby! Whoo!
Hmph! Satyrs.
-(daughters whooping)
-Whoo! (laughs)
PERCY:
What is this place?
Welcome home.
Your father built this... for you.
Wow.
This whole place is mine?
This thing's got some weight to it.
(sighs)
My father is Poseidon.
God of the seas.
Why didn't anybody tell me?
It was for your own safety.
It's exceedingly rare for a child
to be born to one of the Big Three.
You're very powerful... a threat.
A threat?
Who am I threatening?
Poseidon's brothers...
Zeus and Hades.
That's why your mother
married your stepfather.
His pungent odor masked
the smell of your blood
and hid you from anything or anyone
the gods would send to kill you.
My mother put up
with that creep to protect me?
Mm-hmm.
I wish I had known.
She sacrificed so much for me.
Now she's gone.
Why am I even here?
CHIRON: You're here
because you're in jeopardy.
Everyone thinks you're
the lightning thief.
Look, I didn't steal it.
Zeus' bolt is the most
powerful weapon ever created.
And if it's not returned
by the summer solstice
in ten days, there will be a war.
This is your problem,
all right? Not mine.
This is about your world, not mine.
This is about all worlds.
Olympians would be
forced to choose sides.
Earth would become a battleground--
mountains erupted,
earthquakes, raging fires.
The end of life as you know it.
What can we do?
I want to take you to Olympus,
convince Zeus of your innocence.
Someone's using you to start a war.
What are we doing here? Let's go now.
Your boldness is commendable,
but outside those gates,
you will be in danger at all times.
The Fury and the Minotaur
were only the beginning.
First, we must train.
GROVER (laughs):
This is always a fun game to watch.
PERCY: Ow, God, how do you guys
wear this stuff? It weighs more than me.
Look, trust me,
wear it or you'll get killed.
-(chuckles)
-Wait, what, what? Wait...
CHIRON:
Heroes!
Warriors!
Fall in!
Hustle, hustle!
Dylan, Paris, stop lollygagging!
Percy, step forward.
This is Percy Jackson.
(indistinct whispering)
And he's going to need a team.
LUKE: We'll take him.
I'm Luke...
son of Hermes and camp leader--
not necessarily in that order.
Where's your helmet?
No one gave me one.
Uh...
Chiron, you still got your wheelchair?
Kid's going to need it.
You're a goner, man.
I'm messing with you. Smile a little bit.
It's good for you, kid.
Anybody got an extra helmet?
Please pass it up.
Uh... try it on.
That'll protect you.
So will all of us.
Welcome to the Blue Soldiers, my friend.
CHIRON: All right, I want everyone
in position for Capture the Flag.
First team to capture
the enemy's banner wins.
Dismissed.
RED SOLDIER LEADER:
Steady...
Steady!
Now!
(all yelling)
(grunting)
(screams, grunts)
(grunting and yelling)
Percy, I know where the flag's at.
Come on.
(panting)
(grunting and yelling)
Keep your eyes open.
Don't get killed.
W-W-W-Whoa, whoa!
-(soldiers grunting)
-Whoa.
(grunting)
(Percy panting, soldier grunting)
-Whoa!
-(soldier grunts)
(both grunting)
(Percy panting)
I'm coming. Buddy, I'm coming.
Sons of Ares-- watch out, whoa.
-That's a sword. That's a sword.
-(grunting)
(panting)
Oh, you guys take camp
way too seriously.
Go!
(all grunting)
No...
...way!
Percy, get out of here.
Go look for the flag.
How did I just do that?
(panting)
No...
(laughs)
I won.
Whoa, whoa, whoa!
Did you really think
it would be that easy?
My mother is goddess
of wisdom and battle strategy.
Do you know what that means?
I always win.
I always lose.
Maybe we're both wrong.
(Annabeth grunts, Percy gasps)
Aah! Ow!
Okay, Chiron, shouldn't we
get in there and stop 'em?
-She's killing him, man.
-You've got to be kidding.
This is the best part.
(both grunting)
Stand up and fight.
Hero.
(both grunting)
(Annabeth panting)
(Percy grunts)
(Red Soldiers cheering)
Come on, Perce.
(cheering continues)
POSEIDON:
Go to the water.
The water will give you power.
(soft jingling)
(grunts)
-Take him out.
-Go for it.
(yells)
(grunting)
(Chiron and Grover laughing)
Yeah!
(yelling)
Hya! Hya! Hya!
(Red Soldier grunts)
(both panting)
(blade whooshes)
(quietly)
Huh?
(Blue Soldiers cheering)
Yeah, Perce!
(cheering continues)
(laughter, indistinct chatter)
-Yeah!
-Sons of Ares!
-Whoo!
-Get up there.
-Yeah!
All right, yeah!
GROVER:
Excuse me, excuse me.
Ladies and gentlemen, the son
of Poseidon is coming through.
A hero is coming through.
Move it.
Hey, no dirty looks.
Stop that.
Sorry.
Um, hey, Percy?
Um, we're having a party
at our place later.
And we would really love it
if you came.
I would love to come;
that'd be great.
-That would be amazing.
-Awesome.
I would love to come, too--
to the party.
You know, thanks
for inviting me, ladies.
Beat it, nymphs.
Wait. Don't leave.
Ladies, I'm available.
Wait, come on, don't leave.
I'm available.
What time is the party?
-Feeling like a hero?
-More like a mutant.
I'm not going to grow a fish tail or gills
or anything like that, am I?
Not likely.
Although a huge ego
isn't out of the question.
You know, you could have
killed me out there?
I could have died if I was normal.
But you aren't.
I get a sense that you
don't like me very much.
It's possible.
I mean, our parents hate each other.
-Wait. They do?
-Mm-hmm.
I definitely have
strong feelings for you.
Just haven't decided
if they're positive or negative yet.
Well, you let me know
when you figure it out.
You'll be the first.
(all gasping, murmuring)
(screaming)
Percy Jackson, show yourself!
(crowd screaming)
(gasping)
(screaming)
CHIRON:
Hades!
Stay back!
Percy Jackson, bring me the bolt.
Be a good boy.
Hand it to me and I will
exchange it for your mother.
CHIRON:
Percy.
Don't listen, Percy!
My mother's gone!
No, your mother is still alive.
I sent the Minotaur to abduct her.
She is here with me
in the underworld.
Mom?
Percy...
What have you done with my mother?
If you ever want to
see your mother again,
you will bring me the bolt.
(all gasping, murmuring)
Chiron, I have to go get her.
Percy...
you don't have the bolt.
Look, I'll tell him the truth.
When he realizes
I'm not the thief, he'll release her.
No, you cannot
negotiate with Hades.
When he finds out
you don't have the bolt,
he will kill you and your mother.
This is her only chance.
No. Stick to our plan.
Travel to Olympus, bargain with Zeus.
Once you convince him of your
innocence, we will do everything
in our power to bring
back your mother.
-Okay.
-Yes.
(groans)
Going somewhere?
Yeah, yeah.
I'm going... for a walk.
Oh, for a walk!
I'm coming with you.
-No. No.
-Yeah.
-I'm going alone.
-No, I'm coming with you.
-No!
-(laughs) You're being followed.
-GROVER: You're stressing me out.
-Leave me alone.
-We've got a 1:00 demigod curfew, okay?
Go to sleep or something.
No.
ANNABETH: One small victory,
and you're ready to fight Hades?
-Ooh, double team.
-Really? You, too?
Look, I just found out
my mother is still alive.
-I'm going to get her back.
-From the underworld?
Whatever it takes.
Oh, yeah, well, maybe
you'll outsmart Hades.
Maybe I will.
Look, man, I can't let you
do this, okay?
Look, I'm not asking
for your permission.
Okay.
Well, according to regulations,
if I can't stop you, I must accompany you,
'cause I'm your best friend
and your protector.
Junior protector.
(laughs)
Is that really necessary?
I don't need your help, okay?
This is something I have to do on my own.
Yeah, well, we weren't asking
for your permission.
Come on, all right?
Today, you tried to kill me.
Now you want to defend me?
ANNABETH: That wasn't real.
That was just training.
Yeah.
Percy, that's all I've ever done
is train and train and train.
I've grown up here. I've only been
in the outside world a couple of times.
And I've never had the chance
to go on an actual quest.
Besides... you've won one battle,
and I've won hundreds.
You're going to need my experience.
Good point.
(chuckles)
You two really want to come?
-Yeah!
-Yes!
Okay. I guess we're all going.
So, who knows how to
get to the underworld?
Did not think of that one.
I think I know someone who might.
MAN IN VIDEO GAME:
Friendly Harriers inbound.
-Luke?
-Hmm?
Hey, guys.
Percy, figured you'd
stop by sooner or later.
Everybody does.
-(video game gunfire)
-Get away from all that...
Renaissance Faire stuff
out there, you know?
But, uh...
welcome to the modern world.
Cool... new stuff.
What are you guys up to?
We're going to get my mom back.
Oh.
ANNABETH: Your dad
is the messenger of the gods,
one of the only ones who's gotten
in and out of the underworld.
Do you have any idea how?
Mmm... My dad's a jerk.
I've never met him.
You, too?
Guess we all got daddy issues, huh?
That's because all gods
are the same:
selfish.
They only care about themselves.
But I once broke into my dad's house.
Got some cool stuff.
(blows)
(coughs)
For you.
Oh!
Flying shoes?!
Mm-hmm.
They're my dad's.
He has hundreds of these little guys.
(grunts)
Won't even miss 'em.
Look underneath the other one.
You see, people have gone
to the underworld before,
without having to be dead.
Hercules did it. Orpheus did it.
My dad does it all the time.
Getting in's the easy part.
Getting out-- now, that's tricky.
This is a map to Persephone's pearls.
Persephone?
You mean Hades' wife?
Yeah, he forced her to marry him.
Keeps her prisoner.
LUKE: Needless to say,
she hates it there.
It's hot. He's a weirdo.
So, she has, um... secret visitors.
-Mmm.
LUKE: She keeps pearls hidden
for them all over the world,
and these pearls, they provide
a quick escape from the underworld.
You could use them to get out.
So, how do the pearls work?
Easy.
You take a pearl, step on it,
you crush it,
visualize where you want
to be taken.
Right now, there's three pearls
in the United States.
This map will guide you there.
Right here is your first location.
GROVER: "Auntie Em's
Garden Emporium." Huh.
Once you find the first pearl,
the map will show you
the next one and the next one,
and then you're off to Hades.
Which, um...
reminds me-- you guys...
might need some extra
protection, so, uh...
My favorite shield.
You might want to take a step back.
(clicks)
(gasps)
Mmm.
Hey. Thanks, Luke.
Ah, don't mention it.
But, uh, you're going to have
to promise me one thing.
If you see my dad
on the highway to hell...
Yeah?
...kick his ass for me.
AC/DC:
♪ I'm on the highway to hell ♪
♪ Highway to hell ♪
♪ Mmm ♪
♪ Don't stop me ♪
♪ Hey, hey ♪
(guitar solo plays)
This place definitely
needs an extreme makeover.
(music fades out)
Hello!
Hello?
Anybody home in Auntie-ville?
(chuckles)
Check this out.
They got free sodas.
(chuckling)
(squeaking)
(shrieks)
Okay. That's nasty.
The health department needs
to give this place a F.
Ooh...
Hey, guys, check this out.
(jingling)
Look at this.
Nice.
Gold drachmas.
That means we're on the right track.
Here.
How are we going
to find a pearl in this place?
GROVER:
That's a good question.
Okay, let's split up.
Check everything.
-Good idea.
-Yeah.
I'm gonna go this way.
Hello!
-Get out! She's coming!
-What? Who?
We stopped-- d-directions.
My poor husband!
Help me!
Please, help me!
(laughing)
Oh!
Check this out.
He's just like my Uncle Ferdinand.
(laughing)
That's crazy.
Got the mole in the same place.
No. It's not my Uncle Ferdinand,
'cause my Uncle Ferdinand
was killed by...
(whispering) Medusa.
Oh.
Percy!
Annabeth! We're in trouble!
Grover?!
Please, we have to leave
before she finds us!
-Who?
-She turned my husband to stone!
Grover, where are you?
Percy!
Annabeth!
Annabeth, where are you?
Grover!
(grunting)
Come on, man.
Watch where you're going.
-Perce, listen!
-Where are we?
We're in Medusa's lair.
-Annabeth!
-Annie!
We're lost!
We'll never leave!
Don't move.
Well, this is a fabulous surprise.
It's so...
heartening
to have such young visitors.
We get so lonely here.
Don't we?
(hissing)
That's why I create my statues.
They're my only company...
...daughter of Athena.
How do you know me?
You have such beautiful hair.
I once had hair like that.
I was courted...
desired by many suitors.
But that all changed...
because of your mother--
the woman who cursed me.
Who turned me...
Don't look!
...into this!
(hissing)
They say the eyes
are windows to the soul.
I hope you find my eyes...
(snakes hissing and rattling)
...attractive.
So rude, not looking people in the eyes.
(anxious gasping)
Come on...
sneak a peek.
(hissing)
Okay, now, how are we supposed
to fight something we can't look at?
We can look at a reflection.
Check this out.
All right. Good idea.
I'm gonna go get Annabeth.
Okay. I'm going
to take care of Medusa.
All right.
MEDUSA: You make
a wonderful addition
to my collection.
We'll be friends forever.
Do you mind?
Oh, no, no...
(snakes hissing, rattling)
Sooner or later,
you will open those eyes.
The temptation to look at me
is too hard to resist.
Don't look, Annabeth.
Don't open your eyes.
(hissing)
Who's that?
Another demigod.
Mmm...
I can sense you.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
(snakes hissing)
(panting)
Hmm...
son of Poseidon.
I used to date your daddy.
(grunts)
(gasps, groans)
(hissing in distance)
(gasps, yelps)
Need a hand?
Oh, Grover.
-(Grover grunts)
-Thanks.
-Come on. Let's go.
-Okay.
(grunting)
I hear you have the lightning bolt.
May I see it?
I don't have it!
(hissing)
Let me see your eyes.
I hear they're bluer
than the Circassian Sea.
Open them,
or my hungry babies
will have to open them for you.
But it would be such a pity
to destroy such a young
and handsome face.
Stay with me, Percy.
All you have to do
is look.
(engine revving, tires screeching)
(panting)
Are you okay?
(yells, laughs)
Yeah, I'm okay!
(snakes hissing)
Son of Poseidon!
(gasps)
(panting)
Heads up.
PERCY:
Hey, guys.
It's cool to open up your eyes.
Annabeth, that was great,
great demigod driving.
Thanks.
Oh...
Ugh!
ANNABETH:
We should take it with us.
GROVER:
The head? Oh, no. That's sick.
If you open the eyes,
they still work, dead or alive.
You never know when something
like that might come in handy.
Yeah, you're right,
but I'm not touching it.
Come on, man.
Just take off your jacket.
We'll wrap it up
until we get some ice.
Oh, why I gotta
take off my jacket?
Because you're the protector.
Yeah, you're right.
I am the protector.
So I'm gonna give you my hoodie,
not my jacket, okay?
Come on, you baby.
Disgusting.
Just toss it up.
You know, don't... Ugh!
-Hey. Hey.
-Nasty.
Guys, wait.
The pearl.
One down, two to go.
ANNABETH: Would have been nice
if Luke had warned us about Medusa.
Maybe he just didn't know.
GPS from the gods, where to next?
Let's see.
The Parthenon in Nashville.
Nashville?! Aw, great.
Home of my least favorite music.
Yee-haw!
("I'll Pretend" by Dwight Yoakam playing)
(over radio)
♪ I'll make believe ♪
♪ That the sight of her
in my head's seldom seen ♪
(horn blaring)
-Whoa!
-Whoa! Whoa!
Whoa! Whoa! Whoa!
-(tires screeching)
-PERCY: Whoa! Move!
(screaming)
Let's stop for the night.
-Let's stop for the night.
-Yeah. Yeah.
-Good idea.
-Oh, my god.
♪ Till there's no need,
I'll make believe... ♪
(song fades out)
Percy.
(whooshing)
Hey.
Hi.
Nice work today.
Thanks.
What happened to you?
Oh...
That poor lady who turned
to stone-- she, um...
she had a tight grip.
Check this out.
(chuckles)
Cool.
Very cool.
So...
why do our parents hate each other?
They both wanted to be
patron god of Athens,
and the people chose Athena.
And, um, our parents have
hated each other ever since.
-What's your mom like?
-I don't know.
I never met her.
What?
Wait, is it... is it
like this for everybody?
Don't any gods see their kids?
It's forbidden.
Right after we were born,
Zeus decreed
that the gods couldn't
have physical contact
with their mortal offspring.
Oh, that's a stupid law.
I agree.
Although, um...
between us...
I think my mother speaks
to me sometimes.
In times of trouble,
I hear her voice giving me advice.
-That's happened to me.
-Yeah.
That's your father talking to you.
GROVER:
Hey, yo, Percy!
Get in here, man.
This is ugly.
(sighs)
Right.
GROVER:
Hey, hurry up!
Perce, check this out, man.
You're on TV.
...surrounding the missing boy,
Percy Jackson,
and his mother, Sally Ugliano.
But their relatives have
some interesting theories.
So, Mr. Ugliano, talk to me
about your son, Percy Jackson.
No, he's not my son.
He's stepson.
He did not come from these loins.
Ever since he started with the drugs
and the alcohol,
he's never been the same.
-Oh, no.
-GABE: Five nights ago...
he tried to kill me, and he
threw his mother on the ground,
and his cripple friend
then attacked me
from behind and knocked me out.
When I woke up, Sally was gone.
She was kidnapped by Percy.
-She would never leave without...
-Oh, shut up, Gabe.
-(TV turns off)
-Great.
Now I'm a fugitive.
See? That's what I'm
talking about, man.
Gabe's always running his mouth.
He's just mad because
I busted him up with my crutches.
Oh!
Guys...
I can't pee with her watching me.
(rattling outside)
(gasps)
(maid screaming)
¡Ay, Dios mío!
Sorry, guys.
I messed up.
Should've closed the curtains.
ANNABETH: Come on, guys.
Let's hit the road before
Homeland Security shows up.
(people conversing, shouting)
(laughter, chattering)
ANNABETH:
Wow. That's amazing.
A complete replica
of the Parthenon in Nashville.
All right, guys.
Let's go get the pearl.
(clank)
Wow.
Hey...
That's your mom.
Wonder if she really looks like that.
We'll find out.
Guys, check this out.
Oh, my.
(quietly)
Oh, no.
It's the pearl.
That was easy.
Easy?
It's 30 feet in the air,
and this place is filled with tourists.
I got an idea.
We'll come back after this place closes.
Come on. Follow me.
Or I can just throw my crutch up there.
I'm saying the pearl will fall out.
-PERCY: Grover!
-Perce, I'm saying the...
It's not a bad idea.
(siren wailing in distance)
The park's been closed for an hour.
Let's move.
Yes, sir.
-All right, this'll be easy.
-GROVER: Okay.
I'm gonna fly up; I'm gonna use
Luke's flying shoes.
-Cool.
-I'm gonna grab the pearl...
-...and then-- Oh.
(whirring in distance)
Okay, so what are we going to do?
All right, guys.
I got this.
You got what? Whoa, whoa.
Hey, whoa, hey, listen....
-You're gonna kill the janitors?
-Chill.
Those are working-class Americans.
(gasps, groans)
-(janitor gasps)
-Oh, man.
Aah!
(groans)
Aw, why did you do that?
They're not dead. They're unconscious.
Now, we have 30 minutes.
-Come on.
-Cool.
-Oh.
-(sighs with relief)
(grunts)
Y'all, what's cracking?
Hey.
Luke.
LUKE (over laptop):
Annabeth.
How do you turn on the shoes?
LUKE: Tell Percy he's got
to break into a run, okay?
He's got to build up speed, kind of
like a... a jet on a... on a runway.
But it's going to take some practice.
Okay.
Whew... I got this.
Oh!
GROVER: It's going
to take some practice!
(gasping)
Whoa!
Whoa, whoa, whoa!
(yelling)
-(gasping)
-GROVER: Whoa!
Whoa, whoa.
(panting)
(grunting)
I got it.
-Yes!
-Yeah, Percy!
-GROVER: There we go.
-Oh, whoa, whoa.
-There it is.
-GROVER: Yeah.
(laughs)
-That's what I'm talking about.
-Way to go.
All right, let's grab everything, let's...
Uh-oh, uh-oh.
Oh, man.
GROVER:
Look, I got this, okay?
Hey, guys, I'm with
Park Recreational Services.
You guys have been caught
sleeping on the job.
You better be happy
I'm not writing you guys up.
Okay? This is the last time.
ALL (droning): We've been
expecting you, Mr. Jackson.
(sighs) Not again.
Just give us the lightning bolt
and we'll let you go.
Look, I don't have the lightning bolt.
Okay... this is bad.
(low moaning, crackling)
(snarling)
(shrieks)
GROVER (shuddering):
Whoa!
(growling)
Hydra!
Guys, watch out!
The middle one spews fire!
Whoa, whoa, whoa!
(growls)
(Hydra growling, Annabeth grunting)
Aah!
Oh, you got a sweet tooth.
All right.
How about that?
(grunting)
Yah!
Whoa!
(grunting)
-(Hydra growls)
-Whoa!
Percy, stop!
(grunts)
-No!
-(Percy grunts)
-(Hydra growls)
-Whoa!
-How flippin' awesome was that?
-Whoo!
-I just killed that thing.
-Give me some, my man.
Killed it?! You only made it worse.
What are you talking about?
Percy, when you cut off
one Hydra head...
two more grow back.
(shrieking)
-GROVER: Get back!
-(all scream)
Distract that thing!
I'll get the pearl!
(shrieking)
(shrieks)
-Oh!
-(Hydra growls)
Whoa, oh, oh!
Ow, ow, ow!
(panting)
(Hydra shrieks)
Whoa, whoa! Whoa!
Oh!
-(snarls)
-(Percy grunts)
(gasps)
(low, rumbling growl)
Let's go!
PERCY: Go!
Open the door!
The door won't open!
ANNABETH:
Grover!
(growls)
(panting)
(crackling)
Whoo!
(chuckles)
Ugh! That's nasty.
TV NEWS ANCHOR:
We interrupt our regularly
scheduled programming
for this special report.
Scientists are baffled
by what now appears
to be a single storm cloud
that is expanding over much
of Europe and Asia,
moving towards the United States.
Savage winds, rain, and
mammoth waves are being reported
along the coastlines
of several continents.
So far, no casualties,
but countries everywhere
are preparing for the worst.
The gods are angry.
We need to get the last pearl.
Where's the next location?
Yeah.
Let's see.
Well, guys... we got
ourselves a good one.
We're going to Vegas!
WOMAN: Come on.
(enthusiastic chatter)
(chuckling)
Wow.
Yo.
Oh... there it is.
Lotus Casino.
(fireworks whistling)
GROVER:
I've been looking forward to this.
Look, guys, remember, always split
the eights, never the tens, okay?
ANNABETH: We're not here
to gamble, remember?
GROVER: We got poker.
We got blackjack.
Grover, we're not here to have fun.
We just need to grab
the pearl and go, okay?
All right.
("A Little Less Conversation"
by Elvis Presley playing)
This is nice.
(indistinct conversation,
laughter, jubilant shouts)
♪ A little less conversation,
a little more action, please ♪
♪ All this aggravation ♪
♪ Ain't satisfactioning me... ♪
Okay, this place is officially dope.
Here's your complimentary
Lotus Fun Book.
Thanks, but we're not staying.
Please, I insist.
It's good for everything
in the hotel and casino.
Don't comp us.
We're not checking in.
Okay, that guy was persistent.
Yeah.
Yeah, we're here for one thing
and one thing only.
-ANNABETH: Wow.
-PERCY: That is really awesome.
(Grover chuckles)
Where would we find
a green pearl in this place?
Um, maybe on a cocktail
waitress or a showgirl.
We should start there.
Can I get you something?
Try a lotus flower.
They're so good.
It's our signature dish.
Oh... really? Signature?
Is it good?
Thank you.
Yo, do we have to pay for this?
-I guess we don't.
-It's free.
-GROVER: Mmm!
-Hmm, that's really good.
GROVER:
Hmph.
Mmm.
Wow, this is the most delicious
thing I've ever consumed.
("Poker Face" by Lady Gaga playing)
(all laughing)
Wow.
(high-pitched giggling)
Guys, why don't
we stay here for a while?
GROVER (squeals): Yeah!
That sounds like an amazing idea.
(bleating)
But we're on a time-sensitive
mission right now.
(laughing)
-Aren't we...?
-I can't remember.
PERCY: I totally forgot
what I was going to say.
I think I figured it out.
I think I know why we're here.
Why are we here?
To have fun.
Okay. Let's never leave.
-ANNABETH: Yeah!
-Let's stay here!
(all laughing)
LADY GAGA:
♪ Can't read my, can't read my ♪
♪ No, he can't read my poker face ♪
BACKUP SINGERS:
♪ She's got to love nobody ♪
LADY GAGA:
♪ Can't read my, can't read my ♪
♪ No, he can't read
my poker face... ♪
Whoa!
-Yeah!
-Whoa-ho-ho!
Yes!
(Annabeth and Percy laughing)
♪ P-P-Poker face... ♪
Thank you.
♪ P-P-P-Poker face,
P-P-poker face ♪
♪ Oh, oh-oh-oh, oh,
oh-oh-oh-oh, oh ♪
♪ I'll get him hot,
show him what I've got ♪
♪ Oh, oh-oh-oh, oh,
oh-oh-oh-oh, oh ♪
♪ I'll get him hot,
show him what I've got... ♪
You're awesome!
♪ Can't read my ♪
♪ Can't read my, no,
he can't read my poker face ♪
♪ She's got to love nobody ♪
♪ Can't read my, can't read my ♪
♪ No, he can't read
my poker face... ♪
-Ooh, ooh, ooh.
-Ooh, thanks.
Thank you. Thanks.
♪ P-P-Poker face... ♪
POSEIDON:
No, Percy, don't eat the flower.
It dulls the senses;
keeps you prisoner here.
Hey, I think I'm gonna
go get some air. I'll be right back.
("Mama Told Me Not to Come"
by Three Dog Night playing)
Another lotus flower?
No, I'm good. Thank you.
♪ Sugar in your tea? ♪
♪ What's all these crazy questions...? ♪
POSEIDON: Look around you.
Focus. Focus.
-Another lotus flower?
-Oh, no, thank you.
-Would you like another one?
-I'm fine.
♪ Mama told me not to come ♪
♪ Mama told me not to come... ♪
PERCY:
The French Connection, huh?
PINBALL PLAYER:
Yeah. You seen it yet?
Yeah, yeah, I think so, on DVD.
What's DVD?
Seriously?
Whatever-- I think it's
the best movie of the year.
What?
Wait, this year.
Yeah, this year-- 1971.
♪ Radio is blastin',
someone's knockin' at the door... ♪
-(jubilant shouts in distance)
-Yes, yes!
POSEIDON:
Percy, wake up.
You need to escape. Wake up.
You could really use a lotus flower.
I really don't want one.
Thank you.
-Just one.
-No.
(craps players shouting excitedly)
(roulette ball rattling)
(craps players cheering)
Another lotus flower?
-No.
-We insist.
I really don't want another lotus flower,
so please leave me alone.
Is there a problem, Mr. Jackson?
No, thank you.
Percy Jackson's awake.
("TiK ToK" by Ke$ha playing)
(girls giggling)
Excuse me.
Annabeth, Annabeth!
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
What are you doing with that?
-Don't eat that.
-What?!
We have to go now.
What do you mean?
We're having so much fun.
No, no, no, we're not having fun.
Grover! Grover! Wake up! Grover!
Come on. We gotta go!
What? Look, Perce,
your timing is terrible, okay?
Dude, we're heading to the chapel.
We're getting married!
-How romantic!
-No, no, no, no.
Wait, which one of y'all I propose to?
Oh!
Wake up!
Yo, man, you're such a buzzkill.
ANNABETH:
Percy, what's wrong with you?
Why are you doing this?
Both of you need to wake up now!
Look at me. Look at me.
You're in a trance, okay?
We're trapped! Listen to me.
If you eat the flowers,
you're never gonna
want to leave, okay?
We're gonna be stuck here forever!
Oh.
Oh, no. We gotta go.
-Okay, I see what you mean.
-Gotta get the green pearl.
All right, okay.
Hold it right there!
-Stop right there, sir!
-Stop where you are!
(grunting)
(crowd gasps)
(gasps)
Oh!
James Dean, out of the way!
-Let's go, right!
-Car, car!
Come on, guys, car!
Get in!
Come on. Come on!
In the car, in the car!
Let's go! Keys!
-Got the keys.
-Come on!
PERCY:
Drive, drive, drive!
Okay, they're coming!
They're coming!
You want to start driving!
-GROVER: I got this.
-Go!
(tires screeching, engine revving)
(tires screeching)
(car horns honking)
(startled yell)
Whoa, whoa, whoa!
Now that's how you get out of a casino!
That's how you drive!
Of course.
Now that all makes sense.
What?
That was the lair of the lotus eaters.
They've been luring people
into their trap since ancient times.
Guys, look, tomorrow is June 21st.
PERCY: No, no, no, it can't be.
Today's the 15th.
ANNABETH:
No, tomorrow is the 21st.
We were in there for five days.
Felt like hours.
Then tomorrow's the solstice.
Our deadline is tomorrow at midnight.
Okay, look, we gotta move it.
Where's Hades?
Okay...
(quiet sizzling, crackling)
It's in... Hollywood.
GROVER: All right.
I can get us there in four hours.
Maybe three.
(engine revving, tires screeching)
(horns honking)
REPORTER (on radio): And now
the latest breaking news from KZLY.
An unprecedented
storm cloud has grown
to cover most of North America.
Authorities in several states
are ordering evacuations,
reporting severe weather conditions.
(all panting)
Don't slip. Watch your step.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!
Wait, wait, wait. Hold it.
"Woe to all depraved souls."
(rumbling, cracking)
(debris clattering)
(sudden crash echoing)
Well, guess it ain't
no turning back now.
Yep. Looks like
we're stuck in here.
Yeah.
GROVER: Hey, Perce,
who's that creepy guy with the hoodie?
PERCY:
I don't know.
Let's find out.
Who are you?
We need to see Hades.
FERRYMAN:
The living are not permitted here.
Die and come back.
Okay, we won't (imitating voice)
"die and come back," but...
(sighs)
You know what?
-I think I know what he wants.
-What?
You gotta pay the ferryman.
Watch this.
Yo, my friend!
(chuckles)
What up? (chuckles)
Okay, guess not.
Look, you like dead people, right?
I got a few dead people
you might recognize.
Check this out.
Jackson, Grant.
And look who's joining
the party: Benjamin Franklin.
Yeah, you like that, don't you?
Look, you give us a boat ride,
you take the money,
and you get an interior decorator,
'cause it is too depressing in here.
A'ight? There you go.
(gasps)
GROVER:
That was $170!
Wait, wait, wait.
Wait, wait, wait, wait.
The drachma, the drachma.
Climb aboard.
Thanks for telling me, man. You're
burning money; we're in a recession.
-That's treason.
-Shut up. Shut up. Get on.
(rumbling)
(people screaming in distance)
FERRYMAN:
Welcome to the underworld.
What is all this?
(distant screaming and wailing)
The scrap heap of human misery.
Lost hopes and dreams.
Wishes that never came true.
(watch ticking)
(distant screams echoing)
FERRYMAN: All lives end
in suffering and tragedy.
(screams echoing)
This is as far as I go.
(growling echoes from distance)
Guys, do you hear that?
-PERCY: Yeah. What is that?
-GROVER: I don't know.
-(fierce growling)
-PERCY AND GROVER: Whoa!
Sit!
(growling)
-Annie, stab that thing!
-What are we going to do?
-(growling)
-(Annabeth grunts)
Stop it!
(speaking Greek)
What were those things?
Hellhounds.
GROVER:
Yeah.
Well, maybe you should feed 'em.
They sensed the presence
of another animal.
-Great. They smell goat.
-Hmm!
A satyr.
I haven't had a satyr...
...visit before.
HADES:
Persephone!
What could possibly
be taking so long?
Don't ignore me!
Or what?!
What will you do?
I'm already in Hell.
We have visitors.
Nephew.
Welcome.
You have your father's looks.
Always the, uh,
lucky side of the family.
(Grover laughs)
Wait. Wait a minute.
Wait a minute.
You're Hades?
-Yes.
-Oh, sorry.
I just didn't... I didn't expect you
to look like this, man.
Kind of stylish. I like it.
(chuckles)
Would you prefer that I looked like...
this?
(whooshing)
-GROVER: No! No! No!
-(growling)
Oh, no!
No! No, no. Look, stick to
the Mick Jagger thing. It works for you.
(growling)
(clears throat)
Hmph!
(scoffs)
HADES:
You're very brave coming here.
Come closer.
(whispering)
Hey. Perce.
HADES: I can see the look
of disgust in your eyes,
but this existence
was not of my choosing.
I was banished here
by Zeus and your father.
I'm damned.
My only chance
of getting out of this place
is to defeat my brothers
and take control of Olympus.
But, of course, um...
I'll need the bolt.
And I need my mother.
Then we have an understanding.
You give me the bolt,
and I'll give you your mother.
I need to tell you the truth.
I'm... I'm not the lightning thief.
I don't have the bolt.
I never did.
Why did you come here, then?
Well, I was hoping that...
when you saw that I wasn't the thief,
you'd let my mother go.
Yes.
Yes, but do you think I'm an idiot?
I'm Hades!
Now, give me the bolt,
or say good-bye to your mother.
(gasps)
(whooshing)
Percy.
(buzzing and crackling)
(sighs)
I thought I lost you forever.
No.
(crackling)
(crackling, rumbling)
Zeus' master bolt.
(Hades gasps in awe)
Liar.
I swear, I don't know
how that got there.
That's not even my shield.
ANNABETH:
No. Luke rigged it.
He put the bolt
in his shield and used us.
Luke stole the lightning bolt.
Um, I think we're done here.
Feed them to the souls.
-(clanking, rumbling)
-(gasping)
(whooshing)
(screaming, howling, screeching)
-Whoa! Whoa!
-We had a deal, all right?
You have the bolt. Just let us go.
Summon the hounds.
(speaks Greek)
-(hounds growling, snarling)
-No... no on the dogs.
(fierce growling)
Lassie, sit! Sit!
(hounds growling)
(souls screeching)
I... am going to be king of the gods.
-No!
-Stay back!
(growls)
-Back!
-Stay!
(jaws snap)
-Mmm... mmm.
All right, come on...
(anxious laugh)
Come on. Give it back.
(yells)
(grunting)
(laughing)
(howling, screeching)
(speaks Greek)
(anxious gasping)
Bad dog!
(gasps)
He won't remember a thing!
Why'd you do that?
Because...
he's cruel and abusive!
The only thing I look forward to
is my allotted time
away from this hellhole.
A war of the gods would put
an end to that, and I'd be alone...
with only him...
forever.
(scoffs)
Go.
Take the bolt and your mother.
(crackling)
(switch clicks, blade rings)
Only three?
Oh, no.
PERSEPHONE:
There are four of you.
Each pearl transports
only a single person.
One of you will have to stay.
All right, I'll stay. You three go.
-SALLY: What? No!
-No. No, no, no.
I've achieved my quest.
I'm staying here.
ANNABETH: No. I've trained
for situations like this.
PERCY:
Neither of you are st...
Guys, guys, knock it off.
-I'm staying because I'm the protector.
-Grover, come on.
Look, man, I don't want
to hear it. Just go.
It's my duty.
It's what I'm meant for.
We'll come back for you.
I'll take very good care of him.
All right, now, move it, guys.
Each of you step on the pearl
and concentrate on where you want to go.
Take this.
To Olympus.
(thunder rumbles)
(hissing, whooshing)
(hissing, whooshing fade)
(bleats)
(muffled grunt)
Whew!
(deep whooshing)
(crackling)
(thunder crashing)
Hey. Look.
(wind whistling)
Zeus and Poseidon
preparing for battle.
No...
No, no, this isn't the right place.
This isn't Olympus.
This is...
this is the Empire State Building.
Percy! The entrance
to Olympus is there!
Well, there's ten minutes
till midnight. Let's move.
LUKE: Percy Jackson!
(wings fluttering)
Well, you weren't supposed
to make it out alive.
I can't let you take
that bolt to Olympus.
I'm the lightning thief.
You hid the bolt
in my shield? Why?
Well, when you said you were
going to the underworld, it hit me.
That is the perfect opportunity
to get the bolt to Hades.
Why would you do that?
To bring Olympus crumbling down.
SALLY: Percy, let's go.
Let's go.
Well, it's too late, 'cause I'm
returning the bolt to Zeus right now.
Not before midnight.
(Luke grunting)
(yells, groans)
(growling)
(crackles, sizzles)
(grunting)
(groaning)
(fierce yell)
-(knife whooshing)
-(both grunting)
(grunts in pain)
-You all right?
-Yeah.
PERCY: Luke, why do you
want a war of the gods?
Control.
They've been in power for too long.
I say it's time for our generation
to take over,
remold the world in our image.
A world of new heroes.
You're no hero.
(Percy and Annabeth gasp)
(all yell)
(chuckles)
(screaming)
(yelling, gasping)
-Mom, are you all right?
-Yeah.
(whooshing)
Stay here.
(panting)
(helicopter approaching)
(crackling)
PERCY: Luke!
(grunting)
Whoa...!
(growls, yells)
(yells)
(fierce grunt)
Whoa!
(boom echoing)
(gasping)
(yells, grunts)
(grunts)
Aah! Oh!
(gasping)
(yelling)
No! Oh... oh...!
(yells, grunting)
(groaning in pain)
(spits)
(grunts, pants)
(crackles, sizzles)
Maybe they were wrong.
Maybe you're no son of Poseidon.
Hmm.
(grunts)
(creaking)
(bolts exploding)
-(grunts)
-(booming)
(panting)
(grunts)
(muffled yelling)
(electrical crackling)
(Luke coughing, gagging)
(spits)
(panting)
(buzzing, crackling)
(gasping)
(panting)
(burbling, whooshing)
Yeah.
(trident rings)
I think I am the son of Poseidon.
(both grunt)
(grunts, yells)
Whoa...!
(bolt crackling)
(fluttering)
(sirens wailing in distance)
(grunts)
He's got the bolt! Come on!
Let's move! We've got two minutes.
(electrical whirring)
(sudden rumbling)
(high-speed whirring)
(explosive boom)
(all panting)
(thunder rumbles)
Olympus.
Percy, I can't get through.
You've got to go!
(gods arguing)
Silence!
(arguments quiet)
ZEUS:
It is almost midnight.
This was predestined.
You wanted this battle!
You have only yourself to blame!
ATHENA:
Please!
Let's be rational.
War is not the answer!
Time has run out.
PERCY:
Wait!
Wait! Wait!
Wow.
My name is Percy Jackson,
and I think you might be looking for this.
(bolt sizzling, crackling)
Give me the bolt, lightning thief.
(thunder cracking)
You're wise to betray your father.
I didn't steal it.
And I have no connection
to Poseidon.
But tell me, if you didn't steal it,
then who did?
Luke, son of Hermes.
You see, he was angry at you.
All of you.
He wanted you to destroy yourselves.
You have done well.
Let there be peace.
(exhales)
Hi, Mom.
Annabeth.
ATHENA:
I am so proud of you.
Zeus, I have a good friend.
He's a satyr named Grover.
He's my protector.
And the only reason why
we escaped the underworld
is because he stayed behind.
And now you expect me
to bring him back.
Very well.
(relieved sigh)
I believe this assembly's
business here is finished.
Brother, please.
I need to speak with him.
Just this once.
I'll meet you outside.
I'm not expecting you to forgive me.
But I want you to know
that I'm grateful.
I didn't do it for you.
I did it to save Mom.
(water rushing)
Please, we don't have much time.
How old was I...
when you left?
Seven months.
Look, I didn't need you
there all the time,
but what...
I would've liked to have
seen you just once.
Why didn't you ever come back?
I wanted to.
When I was with you and your mother,
I became less concerned
with my responsibilities.
I was becoming human.
And that's a bad thing?
For a god?
Zeus thought so.
That's why he passed the law
preventing gods from ever
having contact with their children.
That was because of you?
But I was always watching over you.
Just because you didn't see me
doesn't mean that I wasn't there.
When you were troubled,
I tried to help.
I heard you.
I know I'm not the father
you always wanted.
But if you ever need me,
I'll be there for you.
In your thoughts.
And in your dreams.
I'll stand by you, Percy.
Always.
(sighs)
You can come visit me anytime.
Just promise me that I don't have to
see that loser Gabe ever again.
I kicked him out.
Yeah, he's gone.
He's out of our lives forever.
Finally.
(chuckles)
Oh.
(sighs)
-Gonna miss you.
-You, too.
Percy...
This is where you belong.
-Good job, man.
-Nice, Perce.
Ready!
Aim!
-Whoa, Perce, watch out!
-Whoa, hey!
Whoa, you guys gonna kill
the man who saved the world?
Great job. All you guys
take a lunch break.
Thank you.
(chuckles)
So the conquering hero
returns triumphant.
Grover.
Hey, you notice anything
different about me?
No.
You sure?
Anything that's improved about me?
No, what?
You've been working out, huh?
What, you get a new cologne?
You smell good.
Look, man, I got my horns!
Oh! I was seeing them
the whole time.
-Look at that thing.
-(laughs)
Got little horns in your head.
-Right? Zeus came through.
-Crazy.
-Wow.
-Now I'm Senior Protector,
First Class, baby.
Congratulations.
Definitely earned them.
Thank you, man.
-(Grover laughs)
-Yeah.
CHIRON: Keep moving! Keep moving!
Don't lose interest!
One foot in front of the other, and
the next thing you know, you're running!
Percy.
You left the camp.
You disobeyed my orders.
Yeah, about that. Um...
Which is why...
you're my favorite student.
You can receive
all the training in the world,
but, ultimately,
you have to follow your instincts.
Grace under pressure.
All right.
Time to train. Go suit up.
You might be a big shot
on Olympus,
but down here, you're still
just one of my students.
Move it.
Nice horns, Grover.
-GROVER: I'm serious, man.
-Okay.
We talked. We wooed. We dined.
We had a great time!
Well, I'm happy for you, you know.
Persephone might really
like me. I'm serious.
I think you can handle
this one on your own.
Whew. Uh-huh.
All right, Perce.
(swords clanging, Annabeth grunting)
(anxious sigh)
-Hey, Perce, awesome job.
-Thanks...
-Good job.
-Thanks.
Good job, buddy.
(swords clanging, Annabeth grunting)
Good job.
(grunt, thud)
(groans)
Who's next?
I think I'd like to give it a shot.
Welcome home.
Whoa, whoa! Wait!
First rule of battle strategy:
don't ever let your opponent distract you.
(grunting)
(music playing)
(pounding on door)
GABE:
Sally, open the door!
Open up!
-You changed the locks?
-Yes.
So here's your junk.
You can let yourself out.
How am I supposed to move
all this stuff by myself?
Deal with it.
I need a beer.
What?!
"Do not op..."
That little brat.
I may not live here anymore...
but I'm still the king of this castle.
(hissing)
(crackling)
(noble orchestral theme playing)
(mysterious theme playing)
(slow, melancholy theme playing)
(theme crescendos)
(theme quiets)